
.. _mcn-arch:

Implementing Multiple Cluster Networks
--------------------------------------

Mirantis OpenStack supports configuring
multiple network domains per single OpenStack environment.
This feature is used for environments
that deploy a large number of target :ref:`nodes<node-term>`,
to avoid the broadcast storms that can occur
when all nodes share a single L2 domain.
Multiple Cluster Networks can be configured
for OpenStack environments that use an encapsulation protocol
such as :ref:`Neutron GRE<neutron-gre-ovs-arch>`
and are deployed using Fuel 6.0 and later.

This section discusses how support for
multiple cluster networks is implemented.
:ref:`mcn-ops` tells how to configure this feature
for your Fuel environments.

The Multiple Cluster Network feature is based on
:ref:`Node Groups<node-group-term>`,
which are groupings of nodes
in the current cluster:

- Each of the major :ref:`logical network<logical-networks-arch>`
  (public, management, storage, and fuelweb_admin)
  is associated with a Node Group rather than a cluster.
- Each Node Group belongs to a cluster.
- A default Node Group is created for each cluster.
  The default values are derived from Fuel Menu
  (for the Fuel Admin (PXE) network)
  and release metadata.
- Each cluster can support multiple Node Groups.

:ref:`Nailgun<nailgun-term>` manages multiple cluster networks:

- A :ref:`node<node-term>` serializes its network information
  based on its relationship to networks in its Node Group.

- Each node must have a Node Group;
  if it is not explicitly assigned to one,
  it is assumed to be a member of the default network group.
  If it is not configured properly,
  it will result in the cluster failing to deploy.

- A set of default networks is generated when a Node Group is created.
  These networks are deleted when the Node Group is deleted.

- Each :ref:`logical network<logical-networks-arch>`
  is associated with a Node Group rather than with a cluster.

- Each fuelweb_admin network must have a DHCP network
  configured in the :ref:`dnsmasq.template<dnsmasq-template-ref>` file.

- DHCP requests can be forwarded to the Fuel Master node
  using either of the following methods:

  * configure switches to relay DHCP
  * using a relay client such as **dhcp-helper**

The `nodegroups` table stores information about all configured Node Groups.
To view the contents of this table,
issue the **fuel nodegroup** command

::

  [root@nailgun ~]# fuel nodegroup

  id | cluster | name
  ---|---------|---------------
  1  | 1       | default
  2  | 1       | alpha


The fields displayed are:

:id:    Sequential ID number assigned
        when the Node Group is created
        and used as the Public Key for the Node Group.

:cluster:    Cluster with which the Node Group is associated.

:name:    Display name for the Node Group, assigned by the operator.

The `network_groups` table can be viewed
in the :ref:`network_1.yaml<network-1-yaml-ref>` file.

