
.. _MaintUpdates-6-1:

Maintenance Updates for Mirantis OpenStack 6.1
##############################################

This section contains a list of available maintenance updates for
Mirantis OpenStack 6.1.
For detailed information on a specific update, please refer to the
information below. For general considerations on applying
updates, see :ref:`patching-ops`.

.. warning:: The instructions below are part of Mirantis OpenStack
   Maintenance Updates. Applying Mirantis OpenStack Maintenance
   Updates may cause a downtime of entire OpenStack cluster or
   specific OpenStack services.
   Please schedule maintenance window and notify cloud users in
   advance.

.. note:: Applying Mirantis OpenStack Maintenance Updates may
   override manually applied custom patches.

   It’s recommended to back up your deployment and test updates on
   your staging environment before applying updates to production.
   Please consult Mirantis Support if you have any questions or
   concerns.


Security updates
****************

There are no urgent security updates available at the moment.


Published updates
*****************

The following updates for Mirantis OpenStack 6.1 are available. These
updates passed thorough testing and are recommended to be applied to
the Mirantis OpenStack 6.1 deployments.

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1463802-rpc-clients.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1466490-neutron-l2.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1462991-libvirt-hard.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1466552-centos-radosgw.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1469149-backend-argument.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1486907-mu2-openstack.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1467671-node-fail-reboot.rst

-----

Proposed updates
****************

.. warning:: The proposed updates for Mirantis OpenStack 6.1 did NOT
   pass a full cycle of testing and are shared for early access and evaluation
   purposes only. We do not recommend applying the proposed updates to production
   deployments. Use them at your own risk.

The following updates for Mirantis OpenStack 6.1 are shared for an early access.

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1504916-mu3-openstack.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1452389-atop-logrotate.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v61/1487517-rabbitmq-ocf.rst
