.. _MU-v7-0:

Maintenance Updates for Mirantis OpenStack 7.0
##############################################

This section contains a list of available maintenance updates for
Mirantis OpenStack 7.0.
For detailed information on a specific update, refer to the information
below. For general considerations on applying updates, see :ref:`patching-ops`.

.. warning:: The instructions below are part of Mirantis OpenStack
   Maintenance Updates. Applying Mirantis OpenStack Maintenance
   Updates may cause a downtime of entire OpenStack environment or
   specific OpenStack services.
   You must schedule a maintenance window and notify cloud users in
   advance.

.. note:: Applying Mirantis OpenStack Maintenance Updates may
   override manually applied custom patches.

   It is recommended to back up your deployment and test updates on
   your staging environment before applying updates to production.
   If you have any questions or concerns, consult Mirantis Support.


Security updates
****************

There are no urgent security updates available at the moment.

Published updates
*****************

The following updates for Mirantis OpenStack 7.0 are available. These
updates passed thorough testing and are recommended to be applied to
the Mirantis OpenStack 7.0 deployments.

Maintenance Update 1
++++++++++++++++++++

* :ref:`How to update the product <mos70mu1-how-to-update>`

* :ref:`Resolved issues <mos70mu1-issues>`

* :ref:`Updated packages <mos70mu1-packages>`

Proposed updates
****************

There are no proposed updates available at the moment.

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v7.0/mos70mu1-how-to-update.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v7.0/mos70mu1-issues.rst

-----

.. include:: /pages/maintenance-updates/v7.0/mos70mu1-packages.rst
